well Qatar says it's focusing on further
extending a ceasefire between Hamas and
Israel Beyond Wednesday in its role as a
mediator in the conflict let's bring in
Muhammad shawi he's a professor of
conflict resolution and diplomacy at
George Mason University Muhammad welcome
back so the heads of the CIA mosad and
Egypt spy agency are all now here in
Qatar uh for talks what exactly are the
mediators pushing for now is it just
another another extension to the
ceasefire or are they looking beyond
that in terms of maybe a political
solution I think they are in in a more
promising framework of where they can
push the mediation and negotiation
forward that means we have completed one
phase of releasing or swapping number of
Civilian hostages for number of
Palestinian prisoners now I think they
are considering also other phases which
is now let's talk serious about how
those military hostages on the is
Israeli side Visa who could or who
should be released in in terms of the
big names members of Hamas Jihad and
other and that's more complicated
exactly so this is the real meat
negotiation if you like in other words
that Netanyahu needs to address both
civilian and Military hostages and some
of his generals now we are talking also
at the symbolic level of who should be
released from Gaza from Hamas therefore
I think the katar mediation is getting
more prominence more significance John
uh Burns stays foot in duha the head of
mad is doing the same thing therefore I
think the Horizon expand is expanding
dramatically and I think this gives us
another good indicator that the
Netanyahu government has to remain
committed because of this Arrangement so
far okay um also we know that Netanyahu
um is under growing pressure from the
Americans to change the conduct of the
war how do you see the military
operations of both Israel and Hamas
evolving against the backdrop of this
diplomatic pressure that's happening I
think this is a dialectic that can go
either way in other words we have
diplomacy competing with
militarism and the Netanyahu group still
insists that no matter how we succeed
this first swap over five days we are
going to resume fighting I think this is
not going to hold much longer because
there is this combination three factors
are working against the choice of
militarism and Military you know flight
number one the bidens and the the blink
of the world are for this open-ended
negotiation toward more diplomatic
outcomes number two the karies the
Egyptians are also for both reconc from
the Israelis as well from Ham number
three Israel has now witnessed a bright
day so the families the public opinion
has higher expectations therefore the
nanaho of the world cannot go back and
close this know window of light
therefore I think the momentum I mean
the locomotive of diplomacy has started
and it should continue forward okay let
me get a final thought from you I mean
what will it take then for the mediators
and the Americans to change Israel's
tactical thinking because even President
Biden tweeted last night that war alone
is not going to resolve this conflict I
think we need two things to be combined
at once one is the mediation itself and
I think it remains impartial it remains
promising and it has fulfilled a certain
level of of productivity more than 50
hostages are being released a bigger
number of isra of Palestinian uh
prisoners have been overas this is where
we can build up some confidence number
two Washington has to push for more
concessions from uh the Netanyahu
therefore it's a matter of combination
internal and external forces coming
together okay Muhammad shakar we have to
leave it there thank you very much
indeed for your time and your analysis